RESPONSE TO A DOUGLAS SPEECH

SPEECH IN SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS, JUNE 26, 1857.

FELLOW-CITIZENS:--I am here to-night partly by the invitation of some of you, and partly
by my own inclination. Two weeks ago Judge Douglas spoke here on the several subjects of
Kansas, the Dred Scott decision, and Utah. I listened to the speech at the time, and
have the report of it since. It was intended to controvert opinions which I think just,
and to assail (politically, not personally) those men who, in common with me, entertain
those opinions. For this reason I wished then, and still wish, to make some answer to
it, which I now take the opportunity of doing.

I begin with Utah. If it prove to be true, as is probable, that the people of Utah are
in open rebellion to the United States, then Judge Douglas is in favor of repealing
their territorial organization, and attaching them to the adjoining States for judicial
purposes. I say, too, if they are in rebellion, they ought to be somehow coerced to
obedience; and I am not now prepared to admit or deny that the Judge's mode of coercing
them is not as good as any. The Republicans can fall in with it without taking back
anything they have ever said. To be sure, it would be a considerable backing down by
Judge Douglas from his much-vaunted doctrine of self-government for the Territories; but
this is only additional proof of what was very plain from the beginning, that that
doctrine was a mere deceitful pretense for the benefit of slavery. Those who could not
see that much in the Nebraska act itself, which forced governors, and secretaries, and
judges on the people of the Territories without their choice or consent, could not be
made to see, though one should rise from the dead.

But in all this it is very plain the Judge evades the only question the Republicans have
ever pressed upon the Democracy in regard to Utah. That question the Judge well knew to
be this: "If the people of Utah peacefully form a State constitution tolerating
polygamy, will the Democracy admit them into the Union?" There is nothing in the United
States Constitution or law against polygamy; and why is it not a part of the Judge's
"sacred right of self-government" for the people to have it, or rather to keep it, if
they choose? These questions, so far as I know, the Judge never answers. It might
involve the Democracy to answer them either way, and they go unanswered.

As to Kansas. The substance of the Judge's speech on Kansas is an effort to put the
free-State men in the wrong for not voting at the election of delegates to the
constitutional convention. He says:

"There is every reason to hope and believe that the law will be fairly interpreted and
impartially executed, so as to insure to every bona fide inhabitant the free and quiet
exercise of the elective franchise."

It appears extraordinary that Judge Douglas should make such a statement. He knows that,
by the law, no one can vote who has not been registered; and he knows that the free-
State men place their refusal to vote on the ground that but few of them have been
registered. It is possible that this is not true, but Judge Douglas knows it is asserted
to be true in letters, newspapers, and public speeches, and borne by every mail and
blown by every breeze to the eyes and ears of the world. He knows it is boldly declared
that the people of many whole counties, and many whole neighborhoods in others, are left
unregistered; yet he does not venture to contradict the declaration, or to point out how
they can vote without being registered; but he just slips along, not seeming to know
there is any such question of fact, and complacently declares:

"There is every reason to hope and believe that the law will be fairly and impartially
executed, so as to insure to every bona fide inhabitant the free and quiet exercise of
the elective franchise."

I readily agree that if all had a chance to vote they ought to have voted. If, on the
contrary, as they allege, and Judge Douglas ventures not to particularly contradict, few
only of the free-State men had a chance to vote, they were perfectly right in staying
from the polls in a body.

By the way, since the Judge spoke, the Kansas election has come off. The Judge expressed
his confidence that all the Democrats in Kansas would do their duty-including "free-
State Democrats," of course. The returns received here as yet are very incomplete; but
so far as they go, they indicate that only about one sixth of the registered voters have
really voted; and this, too, when not more, perhaps, than one half of the rightful
voters have been registered, thus showing the thing to have been altogether the most
exquisite farce ever enacted. I am watching with considerable interest to ascertain what
figure "the free-State Democrats" cut in the concern. Of course they voted,--all
Democrats do their duty,--and of course they did not vote for slave-State candidates. We
soon shall know how many delegates they elected, how many candidates they had pledged to
a free State, and how many votes were cast for them.

Allow me to barely whisper my suspicion that there were no such things in Kansas as
"free-State Democrats"--that they were altogether mythical, good only to figure in
newspapers and speeches in the free States. If there should prove to be one real living
free-State Democrat in Kansas, I suggest that it might be well to catch him, and stuff
and preserve his skin as an interesting specimen of that soon-to-be extinct variety of
the genus Democrat.

And now as to the Dred Scott decision. That decision declares two propositions--first,
that a negro cannot sue in the United States courts; and secondly, that Congress cannot
prohibit slavery in the Territories. It was made by a divided court dividing differently
on the different points. Judge Douglas does not discuss the merits of the decision, and
in that respect I shall follow his example, believing I could no more improve on McLean
and Curtis than he could on Taney.

He denounces all who question the correctness of that decision, as offering violent
resistance to it. But who resists it? Who has, in spite of the decision, declared Dred
Scott free, and resisted the authority of his master over him?

Judicial decisions have two uses--first, to absolutely determine the case decided, and
secondly, to indicate to the public how other similar cases will be decided when they
arise. For the latter use, they are called "precedents" and "authorities."

We believe as much as Judge Douglas (perhaps more) in obedience to, and respect for, the
judicial department of government. We think its decisions on constitutional questions,
when fully settled, should control not only the particular cases decided, but the
general policy of the country, subject to be disturbed only by amendments of the
Constitution as provided in that instrument itself. More than this would be revolution.
But we think the Dred Scott decision is erroneous. We know the court that made it has
often overruled its own decisions, and we shall do what we can to have it to overrule
this. We offer no resistance to it.

Judicial decisions are of greater or less authority as precedents according to
circumstances. That this should be so accords both with common sense and the customary
understanding of the legal profession.

If this important decision had been made by the unanimous concurrence of the judges, and
without any apparent partisan bias, and in accordance with legal public expectation and
with the steady practice of the departments throughout our history, and had been in no
part based on assumed historical facts which are not really true; or, if wanting in some
of these, it had been before the court more than once, and had there been affirmed and
reaffirmed through a course of years, it then might be, perhaps would be, factious, nay,
even revolutionary, not to acquiesce in it as a precedent.

But when, as is true, we find it wanting in all these claims to the public confidence,
it is not resistance, it is not factious, it is not even disrespectful, to treat it as
not having yet quite established a settled doctrine for the country. But Judge Douglas
considers this view awful. Hear him:

"The courts are the tribunals prescribed by the Constitution and created by the
authority of the people to determine, expound, and enforce the law. Hence, whoever
resists the final decision of the highest judicial tribunal aims a deadly blow at our
whole republican system of government--a blow which, if successful, would place all our
rights and liberties at the mercy of passion, anarchy, and violence. I repeat,
therefore, that if resistance to the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United
States, in a matter like the points decided in the Dred Scott case, clearly within their
jurisdiction as defined by the Constitution, shall be forced upon the country as a
political issue, it will become a distinct and naked issue between the friends and
enemies of the Constitution--the friends and the enemies of the supremacy of the laws."

Why, this same Supreme Court once decided a national bank to be constitutional; but
General Jackson, as President of the United States, disregarded the decision, and vetoed
a bill for a recharter, partly on constitutional ground, declaring that each public
functionary must support the Constitution "as he understands it." But hear the General's
own words. Here they are, taken from his veto message:

"It is maintained by the advocates of the bank that its constitutionality, in all its
features, ought to be considered as settled by precedent, and by the decision of the
Supreme Court. To this conclusion I cannot assent. Mere precedent is a dangerous source
of authority, and should not be regarded as deciding questions of constitutional power,
except where the acquiescence of the people and the States can be considered as well
settled. So far from this being the case on this subject, an argument against the bank
might be based on precedent. One Congress, in 1791, decided in favor of a bank; another,
in 1811, decided against it. One Congress, in 1815, decided against a bank; another, in
1816, decided in its favor. Prior to the present Congress, therefore, the precedents
drawn from that course were equal. If we resort to the States, the expressions of
legislative, judicial, and executive opinions against the bank have been probably to
those in its favor as four to one. There is nothing in precedent, therefore, which, if
its authority were admitted, ought to weigh in favor of the act before me."

I drop the quotations merely to remark that all there ever was in the way of precedent
up to the Dred Scott decision, on the points therein decided, had been against that
decision. But hear General Jackson further:

"If the opinion of the Supreme Court covered the whole ground of this act, it ought not
to control the coordinate authorities of this government. The Congress, the executive,
and the courts must, each for itself, be guided by its own opinion of the Constitution.
Each public officer who takes an oath to support the Constitution swears that he will
support it as he understands it, and not as it is understood by others."

Again and again have I heard Judge Douglas denounce that bank decision and applaud
General Jackson for disregarding it. It would be interesting for him to look over his
recent speech, and see how exactly his fierce philippics against us for resisting
Supreme Court decisions fall upon his own head. It will call to mind a long and fierce
political war in this country, upon an issue which, in his own language, and, of course,
in his own changeless estimation, "was a distinct issue between the friends and the
enemies of the Constitution," and in which war he fought in the ranks of the enemies of
the Constitution.

I have said, in substance, that the Dred Scott decision was in part based on assumed
historical facts which were not really true, and I ought not to leave the subject
without giving some reasons for saying this; I therefore give an instance or two, which
I think fully sustain me. Chief Justice Taney, in delivering the opinion of the majority
of the court, insists at great length that negroes were no part of the people who made,
or for whom was made, the Declaration of Independence, or the Constitution of the United
States.

On the contrary, Judge Curtis, in his dissenting opinion, shows that in five of the then
thirteen States--to wit, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, and North
Carolina--free negroes were voters, and in proportion to their numbers had the same part
in making the Constitution that the white people had. He shows this with so much
particularity as to leave no doubt of its truth; and as a sort of conclusion on that
point, holds the following language:

"The Constitution was ordained and established by the people of the United States,
through the action, in each State, of those persons who were qualified by its laws to
act thereon in behalf of themselves and all other citizens of the State. In some of the
States, as we have seen, colored persons were among those qualified by law to act on the
subject. These colored persons were not only included in the body of 'the people of the
United States' by whom the Constitution was ordained and established; but in at least
five of the States they had the power to act, and doubtless did act, by their suffrages,
upon the question of its adoption."

Again, Chief Justice Taney says:

"It is difficult at this day to realize the state of public opinion, in relation to that
unfortunate race, which prevailed in the civilized and enlightened portions of the world
at the time of the Declaration of Independence, and when the Constitution of the United
States was framed and adopted."

And again, after quoting from the Declaration, he says:

"The general words above quoted would seem to include the whole human family, and if
they were used in a similar instrument at this day, would be so understood."

In these the Chief Justice does not directly assert, but plainly assumes as a fact, that
the public estimate of the black man is more favorable now than it was in the days of
the Revolution. This assumption is a mistake. In some trifling particulars the condition
of that race has been ameliorated; but as a whole, in this country, the change between
then and now is decidedly the other way, and their ultimate destiny has never appeared
so hopeless as in the last three or four years. In two of the five States--New Jersey
and North Carolina--that then gave the free negro the right of voting, the right has
since been taken away, and in a third--New York--it has been greatly abridged; while it
has not been extended, so far as I know, to a single additional State, though the number
of the States has more than doubled. In those days, as I understand, masters could, at
their own pleasure, emancipate their slaves; but since then such legal restraints have
been made upon emancipation as to amount almost to prohibition. In those days
Legislatures held the unquestioned power to abolish slavery in their respective States,
but now it is becoming quite fashionable for State constitutions to withhold that power
from the Legislatures. In those days, by common consent, the spread of the black man's
bondage to the new countries was prohibited, but now Congress decides that it will not
continue the prohibition, and the Supreme Court decides that it could not if it would.
In those days our Declaration of Independence was held sacred by all, and thought to
include all; but now, to aid in making the bondage of the negro universal and eternal,
it is assailed and sneered at and construed and hawked at and torn, till, if its framers
could rise from their graves, they could not at all recognize it. All the powers of
earth seem rapidly combining against him. Mammon is after him, ambition follows,
philosophy follows, and the theology of the day fast joining the cry. They have him in
his prison house; they have searched his person, and left no prying instrument with him.
One after another they have closed the heavy iron doors upon him; and now they have him,
as it were, bolted in with a lock of hundred keys, which can never be unlocked without
the concurrence of every key--the keys in the hands of a hundred different men, and they
scattered to hundred different and distant places; and they stand musing as to what
invention, in all the dominions of mind and matter, can be produced to make the
impossibility of his escape more complete than it is.

It is grossly incorrect to say or assume that the public estimate of the negro is more
favorable now than it was at the origin of the government.

Three years and a half ago, Judge Douglas brought forward his famous Nebraska Bill. The
country was at once in a blaze. He scorned all opposition, and carried it through
Congress. Since then he has seen himself superseded in a Presidential nomination by one
indorsing the general doctrine of his measure, but at the same time standing clear of
the odium of its untimely agitation and its gross breach of national faith; and he has
seen that successful rival constitutionally elected, not by the strength of friends, but
by the division of adversaries, being in a popular minority of nearly four hundred
thousand votes. He has seen his chief aids in his own State, Shields and Richardson,
politically speaking, successively tried, convicted, and executed for an offence not
their own but his. And now he sees his own case standing next on the docket for trial.

There is a natural disgust in the minds of nearly all white people at the idea of an
indiscriminate amalgamation of the white and black races; and Judge Douglas evidently is
basing his chief hope upon the chances of his being able to appropriate the benefit of
this disgust to himself. If he can, by much drumming and repeating, fasten the odium of
that idea upon his adversaries, he thinks he can struggle through the storm. He
therefore clings to this hope, as a drowning man to the last plank. He makes an occasion
for lugging it in from the opposition to the Dred Scott decision. He finds the
Republicans insisting that the Declaration of Independence includes all men, black as
well as white, and forthwith he boldly denies that it includes negroes at all, and
proceeds to argue gravely that all who contend it does, do so only because they want to
vote, and eat, and sleep, and marry with negroes. He will have it that they cannot be
consistent else. Now I protest against the counterfeit logic which concludes that,
because I do not want a black woman for a slave I must necessarily want her for a wife.
I need not have her for either. I can just leave her alone. In some respects she
certainly is not my equal; but in her natural right to eat the bread she earns with her
own hands, without asking leave of any one else, she is my equal and the equal of all
others.

Chief Justice Taney, in his opinion in the Dred Scott case, admits that the language of
the Declaration is broad enough to include the whole human family, but he and Judge
Douglas argue that the authors of that instrument did not intend to include negroes, by
the fact that they did not at once actually place them on an equality with the whites.
Now this grave argument comes to just nothing at all, by the other fact that they did
not at once, or ever afterward, actually place all white people on an equality with one
another. And this is the staple argument of both the Chief Justice and the Senator for
doing this obvious violence to the plain, unmistakable language of the Declaration.

I think the authors of that notable instrument intended to include all men, but they did
not intend to declare all men equal in all respects. They did not mean to say all were
equal in color, size, intellect, moral developments, or social capacity. They defined
with tolerable distinctness in what respects they did consider all men created equal--
equal with "certain inalienable rights, among which are life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness." This they said, and this they meant. They did not mean to assert the
obvious untruth that all were then actually enjoying that equality, nor yet that they
were about to confer it immediately upon them. In fact, they had no power to confer such
a boon. They meant simply to declare the right, so that enforcement of it might follow
as fast as circumstances should permit.

They meant to set up a standard maxim for free society, which should be familiar to all,
and revered by all; constantly looked to, constantly labored for, and, even though never
perfectly attained, constantly approximated, and thereby constantly spreading and
deepening its influence and augmenting the happiness and value of life to all people of
all colors everywhere. The assertion that "all men are created equal" was of no
practical use in effecting our separation from Great Britain; and it was placed in the
Declaration not for that, but for future use. Its authors meant it to be--as thank God,
it is now proving itself--stumbling-block to all those who in after times might seek to
turn a free people back into the hateful paths of despotism. They knew the proneness of
prosperity to breed tyrants, and they meant when such should reappear in this fair land
and commence their vocation, they should find left for them at least one hard nut to
crack.

I have now briefly expressed my view of the meaning and object of that part of the
Declaration of Independence which declares that "all men are created equal."

Now let us hear Judge Douglas's view of the same subject, as I find it in the printed
report of his late speech. Here it is:

"No man can vindicate the character, motives, and conduct of the signers of the
Declaration of Independence, except upon the hypothesis that they referred to the white
race alone, and not to the African, when they declared all men to have been created
equal; that they were speaking of British subjects on this continent being equal to
British subjects born and residing in Great Britain; that they were entitled to the same
inalienable rights, and among them were enumerated life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness. The Declaration was adopted for the purpose of justifying the colonists in
the eyes of the civilized world in withdrawing their allegiance from the British crown,
and dissolving their connection with the mother country."

My good friends, read that carefully over some leisure hour, and ponder well upon it;
see what a mere wreck--mangled ruin--it makes of our once glorious Declaration.

"They were speaking of British subjects on this continent being equal to British
subjects born and residing in Great Britain"! Why, according to this, not only negroes
but white people outside of Great Britain and America were not spoken of in that
instrument. The English, Irish, and Scotch, along with white Americans, were included,
to be sure, but the French, Germans, and other white people of the world are all gone to
pot along with the Judge's inferior races!

I had thought the Declaration promised something better than the condition of British
subjects; but no, it only meant that we should be equal to them in their own oppressed
and unequal condition. According to that, it gave no promise that, having kicked off the
king and lords of Great Britain, we should not at once be saddled with a king and lords
of our own.

I had thought the Declaration contemplated the progressive improvement in the condition
of all men everywhere; but no, it merely "was adopted for the purpose of justifying the
colonists in the eyes of the civilized world in withdrawing their allegiance from the
British crown, and dissolving their connection with the mother country." Why, that
object having been effected some eighty years ago, the Declaration is of no practical
use now--mere rubbish--old wadding left to rot on the battlefield after the victory is
won.

I understand you are preparing to celebrate the "Fourth," to-morrow week. What for? The
doings of that day had no reference to the present; and quite half of you are not even
descendants of those who were referred to at that day. But I suppose you will celebrate,
and will even go so far as to read the Declaration. Suppose, after you read it once in
the old-fashioned way, you read it once more with Judge Douglas's version. It will then
run thus:

"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all British subjects who were on this
continent eighty-one years ago were created equal to all British subjects born and then
residing in Great Britain."

And now I appeal to all--to Democrats as well as others--are you really willing that the
Declaration shall thus be frittered away?--thus left no more, at most, than an
interesting memorial of the dead past?--thus shorn of its vitality and practical value,
and left without the germ or even the suggestion of the individual rights of man in it?

But Judge Douglas is especially horrified at the thought of the mixing of blood by the
white and black races. Agreed for once--a thousand times agreed. There are white men
enough to marry all the white women and black men enough to many all the black women;
and so let them be married. On this point we fully agree with the Judge, and when he
shall show that his policy is better adapted to prevent amalgamation than ours, we shall
drop ours and adopt his. Let us see. In 1850 there were in the United States 405,751
mulattoes. Very few of these are the offspring of whites and free blacks; nearly all
have sprung from black slaves and white masters. A separation of the races is the only
perfect preventive of amalgamation; but as an immediate separation is impossible, the
next best thing is to keep them apart where they are not already together. If white and
black people never get together in Kansas, they will never mix blood in Kansas. That is
at least one self-evident truth. A few free colored persons may get into the free
States, in any event; but their number is too insignificant to amount to much in the way
of mixing blood. In 1850 there were in the free States 56,649 mulattoes; but for the
most part they were not born there--they came from the slave States, ready made up. In
the same year the slave States had 348,874 mulattoes, all of home production. The
proportion of free mulattoes to free blacks--the only colored classes in the free States
is much greater in the slave than in the free States. It is worthy of note, too, that
among the free States those which make the colored man the nearest equal to the white
have proportionably the fewest mulattoes, the least of amalgamation. In New Hampshire,
the State which goes farthest toward equality between the races, there are just 184
mulattoes, while there are in Virginia--how many do you think?--79,775, being 23,126
more than in all the free States together.

These statistics show that slavery is the greatest source of amalgamation, and next to
it, not the elevation, but the degradation of the free blacks. Yet Judge Douglas dreads
the slightest restraints on the spread of slavery, and the slightest human recognition
of the negro, as tending horribly to amalgamation!

The very Dred Scott case affords a strong test as to which party most favors
amalgamation, the Republicans or the dear Union-saving Democracy. Dred Scott, his wife,
and two daughters were all involved in the suit. We desired the court to have held that
they were citizens so far at least as to entitle them to a hearing as to whether they
were free or not; and then, also, that they were in fact and in law really free. Could
we have had our way, the chances of these black girls ever mixing their blood with that
of white people would have been diminished at least to the extent that it could not have
been without their consent. But Judge Douglas is delighted to have them decided to be
slaves, and not human enough to have a hearing, even if they were free, and thus left
subject to the forced concubinage of their masters, and liable to become the mothers of
mulattoes in spite of themselves: the very state of case that produces nine tenths of
all the mulattoes all the mixing of blood in the nation.

Of course, I state this case as an illustration only, not meaning to say or intimate
that the master of Dred Scott and his family, or any more than a percentage of masters
generally, are inclined to exercise this particular power which they hold over their
female slaves.

I have said that the separation of the races is the only perfect preventive of
amalgamation. I have no right to say all the members of the Republican party are in
favor of this, nor to say that as a party they are in favor of it. There is nothing in
their platform directly on the subject. But I can say a very large proportion of its
members are for it, and that the chief plank in their platform--opposition to the spread
of slavery--is most favorable to that separation.

Such separation, if ever effected at all, must be effected by colonization; and no
political party, as such, is now doing anything directly for colonization. Party
operations at present only favor or retard colonization incidentally. The enterprise is
a difficult one; but "where there is a will there is a way," and what colonization needs
most is a hearty will. Will springs from the two elements of moral sense and self-
interest. Let us be brought to believe it is morally right, and at the same time
favorable to, or at least not against, our interest to transfer the African to his
native clime, and we shall find a way to do it, however great the task may be. The
children of Israel, to such numbers as to include four hundred thousand fighting men,
went out of Egyptian bondage in a body.

How differently the respective courses of the Democratic and Republican parties
incidentally, bear on the question of forming a will--a public sentiment--for
colonization, is easy to see. The Republicans inculcate, with whatever of ability they
can, that the negro is a man, that his bondage is cruelly wrong, and that the field of
his oppression ought not to be enlarged. The Democrats deny his manhood; deny, or dwarf
to insignificance, the wrong of his bondage; so far as possible crush all sympathy for
him, and cultivate and excite hatred and disgust against him; compliment themselves as
Union-savers for doing so; and call the indefinite outspreading of his bondage "a sacred
right of self-government."

The plainest print cannot be read through a gold eagle; and it will be ever hard to find
many men who will send a slave to Liberia, and pay his passage, while they can send him
to a new country--Kansas, for instance--and sell him for fifteen hundred dollars, and
the rise.
