REPLY TO REQUEST THE PRESIDENT ISSUE A PROCLAMATION OF EMANCIPATION.

A COMMITTEE FROM THE RELIGIOUS DENOMINATIONS OF CHICAGO,

September 13,1862.

The subject presented in the memorial is one upon which I have thought much for weeks
past, and I may even say for months. I am approached with the most opposite opinions and
advice, and that by religious men, who are equally certain that they represent the
Divine will. I am sure that either the one or the other class is mistaken in that
belief, and perhaps in some respects both. I hope it will not be irreverent for me to
say that if it is probable that God would reveal his will to others, on a point so
connected with my duty, it might be supposed he would reveal it directly to me; for,
unless I am more deceived in myself than I often am, it is my earnest desire to know the
will of Providence in this matter. And if I can learn what it is I will do it! These are
not, however, the days of miracles, and I suppose it will be granted that I am not to
expect a direct revelation. I must study the plain physical facts of the case, ascertain
what is possible, and learn what appears to be wise and right.

The subject is difficult, and good men do not agree. For instance, the other day, four
gentlemen of standing and intelligence from New York called as a delegation on business
connected with the war; but before leaving two of them earnestly besought me to proclaim
general emancipation, upon which the other two at once attacked them. You know also that
the last session of Congress had a decided majority of antislavery men, yet they could
not unite on this policy. And the same is true of the religious people. Why, the rebel
soldiers are praying with a great deal more earnestness, I fear, than our own troops,
and expecting God to favor their side: for one of our soldiers who had been taken
prisoner told Senator Wilson a few days since that he met nothing so discouraging as the
evident sincerity of those he was among in their prayers. But we will talk over the
merits of the case.

What good would a proclamation of emancipation from me do, especially as we are now
situated? I do not want to issue a document that the whole world will see must
necessarily be inoperative, like the Pope's bull against the comet! Would my word free
the slaves, when I cannot even enforce the Constitution in the rebel States? Is there a
single court, or magistrate or individual that would be influenced by it there? And what
reason is there to think it would have any greater effect upon the slaves than the late
law of Congress, which I approved, and which offers protection and freedom to the slaves
of rebel masters who come within our lines? Yet I cannot learn that that law has caused
a single slave to come over to us. And suppose they could be induced by a proclamation
of freedom from me to throw themselves upon us, what should we do with them? How can we
feed and care for such a multitude? General Butler wrote me a few days since that he was
issuing more rations to the slaves who have rushed to him than to all the white troops
under his command. They eat, and that is all; though it is true General Butler is
feeding the whites also by the thousand; for it nearly amounts to a famine there. If,
now, the pressure of the war should call off our forces from New Orleans to defend some
other point, what is to prevent the masters from reducing the blacks to slavery again?
for I am told that whenever the rebels take any black prisoners, free or slave, they
immediately auction them off. They did so with those they took from a boat that was
aground in the Tennessee River a few days ago. And then I am very ungenerously attacked
for it! For instance, when, after the late battles at and near Bull Run, an expedition
went out from Washington under a flag of truce to bury the dead and bring in the
wounded, and the rebels seized the blacks who went along to help, and sent them into
slavery, Horace Greeley said in his paper that the government would probably do nothing
about it. What could I do?

Now, then, tell me, if you please, what possible result of good would follow the issuing
of such a proclamation as you desire? Understand, I raise no objections against it on
legal or constitutional grounds; for, as commander-in-chief of the army and navy, in
time of war I suppose I have a right to take any measure which may best subdue the
enemy; nor do I urge objections of a moral nature, in view of possible consequences of
insurrection and massacre at the South. I view this matter as a practical war measure,
to be decided on according to the advantages or disadvantages it may offer to the
suppression of the rebellion.

I admit that slavery is the root of the rebellion, or at least its sine qua non. The
ambition of politicians may have instigated them to act, but they would have been
impotent without slavery as their instrument. I will also concede that emancipation
would help us in Europe, and convince them that we are incited by something more than
ambition. I grant, further, that it would help somewhat at the North, though not so
much, I fear, as you and those you represent imagine. Still, some additional strength
would be added in that way to the war, and then, unquestionably, it would weaken the
rebels by drawing off their laborers, which is of great importance; but I am not so sure
we could do much with the blacks. If we were to arm them, I fear that in a few weeks the
arms would be in the hands of the rebels; and, indeed, thus far we have not had arms
enough to equip our white troops. I will mention another thing, though it meet only your
scorn and contempt. There are fifty thousand bayonets in the Union armies from the
border slave States. It would be a serious matter if, in consequence of a proclamation
such as you desire, they should go over to the rebels. I do not think they all would--
not so many, indeed, as a year ago, or as six months ago--not so many to-day as
yesterday. Every day increases their Union feeling. They are also getting their pride
enlisted, and want to beat the rebels. Let me say one thing more: I think you should
admit that we already have an important principle to rally and unite the people, in the
fact that constitutional government is at stake. This is a fundamental idea going down
about as deep as anything.

Do not misunderstand me because I have mentioned these objections. They indicate the
difficulties that have thus far prevented my action in some such way as you desire. I
have not decided against a proclamation of liberty to the slaves, but hold the matter
under advisement; and I can assure you that the subject is on my mind, by day and night,
more than any other. Whatever shall appear to be God's will, I will do. I trust that in
the freedom with which I have canvassed your views I have not in any respect injured
your feelings.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL H. G. WRIGHT.

WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON, D. C., September 14, 1862.

GENERAL WRIGHT, Cincinnati, Ohio:

Thanks for your despatch. Can you not pursue the retreating enemy, and relieve
Cumberland Gap?

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL G. B. McCLELLAN.

WAR DEPARTMENT, WASHINGTON,

September 15, 1862. 2.45 P.M.

MAJOR-GENERAL McCLELLAN:

Your despatch of to-day received. God bless you, and all with you. Destroy the rebel
army if possible.

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO J. K. DUBOIS. WASHINGTON, D.C.,

September 15, 1862. 3 P.M.

HON. K. DUBOIS, Springfield, Illinois:

I now consider it safe to say that General McClellan has gained a great victory over the
great rebel army in Maryland, between Fredericktown and Hagerstown. He is now pursuing
the flying foe.

A. LINCOLN.

[But not very fast--and he did not catch them! D.W.]

TELEGRAM TO GOVERNOR CURTIN,

WASHINGTON, D. C., September 16, 1862. Noon.

GOVERNOR CURTIN, Harrisburg:

What do you hear from General McClellan's army? We have nothing from him to-day.

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GOVERNOR MORTON.

WASHINGTON, D.C., September 17, 1862.

GOVERNOR O. P. MORTON, Indianapolis, Indiana:

I have received your despatch in regard to recommendations of General Wright. I have
received no such despatch from him, at least not that I can remember. I refer yours for
General Halleck's consideration.

A. LINCOLN.

TELEGRAM TO GENERAL KETCHUM.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, WASHINGTON, September 20, 1862.

GENERAL KETCHUM, Springfield, Illinois:

How many regiments are there in Illinois, ready for service but for want of arms? How
many arms have you there ready for distribution?

A. LINCOLN.

PRELIMINARY EMANCIPATION PROCLAMATION, SEPTEMBER 22, 1862.

THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:

A Proclamation.

I, Abraham Lincoln, President of the United States of America and Commander-in-Chief of
the Army and Navy thereof, do hereby proclaim and declare that hereafter, as heretofore,
the war will be prosecuted for the object of practically restoring the constitutional
relation between the United States and each of the States and the people thereof in
which States that relation is or may be suspended or disturbed.

That it is my purpose, upon the next meeting of Congress, to again recommend the
adoption of a practical measure tendering pecuniary aid to the free acceptance or
rejection of all slave States, so called, the people whereof may not then be in
rebellion against the United States, and which States may then have voluntarily adopted,
or thereafter may voluntarily adopt, immediate or gradual abolishment of slavery within
their respective limits; and that the effort to colonize persons of African descent with
their consent upon this continent or elsewhere, with the previously obtained consent of
the governments existing there, will be continued.

That on the 1st day of January, A.D. 1863, all persons held as slaves within any State
or designated part of a State the people whereof shall then be in rebellion against the
United States shall be then, thenceforward, and forever free; and the executive
government of the United States, including the military and naval authority thereof,
will recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons and will do no act or acts to
repress such persons, or any of them, in any efforts they may make for their actual
freedom.

That the Executive will on the 1st day of January aforesaid, by proclamation, designate
the States and parts of States, if any, in which the people thereof, respectively, shall
then be in rebellion against the United States; and the fact that any State or the
people thereof shall on that day be in good faith represented in the Congress of the
United States by members chosen thereto at elections wherein a majority of the qualified
voters of such State shall have participated shall, in the absence of strong
countervailing testimony, be deemed conclusive evidence that such State and the people
thereof are not then in rebellion against the United States.

That attention is hereby called to an act of Congress entitled "An act to make an
additional article of war," approved March 13, 1862, and which act is in the words and
figure following:

"Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That hereafter the following shall be promulgated as an
additional article of war for the government of the Army of the United States and shall
be obeyed and observed as such.

"ART. All officers or persons in the military or naval service of the United States are
prohibited from employing any of the forces under their respective commands for the
purpose of returning fugitives from service or labor who may have escaped from any
person, to whom such service or labor is claimed to be due, and any officer who shall be
found guilty by a court-martial of violating this article shall be dismissed from the
service.

"SEC. 2. And be it further enacted, That this act shall take effect from and after its
passage."

Also to the ninth and tenth sections of an act entitled "An act to suppress
insurrection, to punish treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of
rebels, and for other purposes," approved July 17, 1862, and which sections are in the
words and figures following:

"SEC. 9. And be it further enacted, That all slaves of persons who shall hereafter be
engaged in rebellion against the Government of the United States, or who shall in any
way give aid or comfort thereto, escaping from such persons and taking refuge within the
lines of the army, and all slaves captured from such persons or deserted by them and
coming under the control of the Government of the United States, and all slaves of such
persons found on (or) being within any place occupied by rebel forces and afterwards
occupied by the forces of the United States, shall be deemed captives of war and shall
be forever free of their servitude and not again held as slaves.

"SEC. 9. And be it further enacted, That no slave escaping into any State, Territory, or
the District of Columbia from any other State shall be delivered up or in any way
impeded or hindered of his liberty, except for crime, or some offence against the laws,
unless the person claiming said fugitive shall first make oath that the person to whom
the labor or service of such fugitive is alleged to be due is his lawful owner, and has
not borne arms against the United States in the present rebellion, nor in any way given
aid and comfort thereto; and no person engaged in the military or naval service of the
United States shall, under any pretense whatever, assume to decide on the validity of
the claim of any person to the service or labor of any other person, or surrender up any
such person to the claimant, on pain of being dismissed from the service."

And I do hereby enjoin upon and order all persons engaged in the military and naval
service of the United States to observe, obey, and enforce, within their respective
spheres of service, the act and sections above recited.

And the Executive will in due time recommend that all citizens of the United States who
shall have remained loyal thereto throughout the rebellion shall (upon the restoration
of the constitutional relation between the United States and their respective States and
people, if that relation shall have been suspended or disturbed) be compensated for all
losses by acts of the United States, including the loss of slaves.

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the United States
to be affixed.

Done at the City of Washington, this twenty-second day of September, in the year of our
Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, and of the independence of the United
States the eighty-seventh.

A. LINCOLN.

By the President: WILLIAM H. SEWARD, Secretary of State.
