Report of Speech at Kalamazoo, Michigan, 27 August 1856

MR. LINCOLN’S SPEECH

At 2 o’clock, P.M., Hon. Abram Lincoln, of Illinois, was introduced to the meeting, and
greeted with much enthusiasm, He addressed the assembly as follows:

Fellow countrymen:— Under the Constitution of the U.S. another Presidential contest
approaches us. All over this land— that portion at least, of which I know much— the
people are assembling to consider the proper course to be adopted by them. One of the
first considerations is to learn what the people differ about. If we ascertain what we
differ about, we shall be better able to decide. The question of slavery, at the present
day, should be not only the greatest question, but very nearly the sole question. Our
opponents, however, prefer that this should not be the case. To get at this question, I
will occupy your attention but a single moment. The question is simply this:— Shall
slavery be spread into the new Territories, or not? This is the naked question. If we
should support Fremont successfully in this, it may be charged that we will not be
content with restricting slavery in the new territories. If we should charge that James
Buchanan, by his platform, is bound to extend slavery into the territories, and that he
is in favor of its being thus spread, we should be puzzled to prove it. We believe it,
nevertheless. By taking the issue as I present it, whether it shall be permitted as an
issue, is made up between the parties. Each takes his own stand. This is the question:
Shall the Government of the United States prohibit slavery in the United States.

We have been in the habit of deploring the fact that slavery exists amongst us. We have
ever deplored it. Our forefathers did, and they declared, as we have done in later
years, the blame rested on the mother Government of Great Britain. We constantly condemn
Great Britain for not preventing slavery from coming amongst us. She would not interfere
to prevent it, and so individuals were enabled to introduce the institution without
opposition. I have alluded to this, to ask you If this is not exactly the policy of
Buchanan and his friends, to place this government in the attitude then occupied by the
government of Great Britain— placing the nation in the position to authorize the
territories to reproach it, for refusing to allow them to hold slaves. I would like to
ask your attention, any gentleman to tell me when the people of Kansas are going to
decide. When are they to do it? How are they to do it? I asked that question two years
ago— when, and how are to do it? Not many weeks ago, our new Senator from Illinois, (Mr.
Trumbull) asked Douglas how it could be done. Douglas is a great man— at keeping from
answering questions he don’t want to answer. He would not answer. He said it was a
question for the Supreme Court to decide. In the North, his friends argue that the
people can decide it at any time. The Southerners say there is no power in the people,
whatever. We know that from the time that white people have have been allowed in the
territory, they have brought slaves with them. Suppose the people come up to vote as
freely, and with as perfect protection as we could do it here. Will they be at liberty
to vote their sentiments? If they can, then all that has ever been said about our
provincial ancestors is untrue, and they could have done so, also. We know our Southern
friends say that the General Government cannot interfere. The people, say they, have no
right to interfere. They could as truly say,— “It is amongst us— we cannot get rid of
it”

But I am afraid I waste too much time on this point. I take it as an illustration of the
principle, that slaves are admitted into the territories. And, while I am speaking of
Kansas, how will that operate? Can men vote truly? We will suppose that there are ten
men who go into Kansas to settle. Nine of these are opposed to slavery. One has ten
slaves. The slaveholder is a good man in other respects; he is a good neighbor, and
being a wealthy man, he is enabled to do the others many neighborly kindnesses. They
like the man, though they don’t like the system by which he holds his fellow-men in
bondage. And here let me say, that in intellectual and physical structure, our Southern
brethren do not differ from us. They are, like us, subject to passions, and it is only
their odious institution of slavery, that makes the breach between us. These ten men of
whom I was speaking, live together three or four years; they intermarry; their family
ties are strengthened. And who wonders that in time, the people learn to look upon
slavery with complacency? This is the way in which slavery is planted, and gains so firm
a foothold. I think this is a strong card that the Nebraska party have played, and won
upon, in this game.

I suppose that this crowd are opposed to the admission of slavery into Kansas, yet it is
true that in all crowds there are some who differ from the majority. I want to ask the
Buchanan men, who are against the spread of slavery, if there be any present, why not
vote for the man who is against it? I understand that Mr. Fillmore’s position is
precisely like Buchanan’s. I understand that, by the Nebraka bill, a door has been
opened for the spread of slavery in the Territories. Examine, if you please, and see if
they have ever done any such thing as try to shut the door. It is true that Fillmore
tickles a few of his friends with the notion that he is not the cause of the door being
opened. Well; it brings him into this position: he tries to get both sides, one by
denouncing those who opened the door, and the other by hinting that he doesn’t care a
fig for its being open. If he were President, he would have one side or the other— he
would either restrict slavery or not. Of course it would be so. There could be no middle
way. You who hate slavery and love freedom, why not, as Fillmore and Buchanan are on the
same ground, vote for Fremont? Why not vote for the man who takes your side of the
question? “Well,” says Buchanier, “it is none of our business.” But is it not our
business? There are several reasons why I think it is our business. But let us see how
it is. Others have urged these reasons before, but they are still of use. By our
Constitution we are represented in Congress in proportion to numbers, and in counting
the numbers that give us our representatives, three slaves are counted as two people.
The State of Maine has six representatives in the lower house of Congress. In strength
South Oarolina is equal to her. But stop! Maine has twice as many white people, and
32,000 to boot! And is that fair? I don’t complain of it. This regulation was put in
force when the exigencies of the times demanded it, and could not have besn avoided.
Now, one man in South Carolina is the same as two men here. Maine should have twice as
many men in Congress as South Carolina. It is a fact that any man in South Carolina has
more influence and power in Congress to-day than any two now before me. The same thing
is true of all slave States, though it may not be in the same proportion. It is a truth
that cannot be denied, that in all the free States no white man is the equal of the
white man of the slave States. But this is in the Constitution, and we must stand up to
it. The question, then is, “Have we no interest as to whether the white man of the North
shall be the equal of the white man of the South?” Once when I used this argument in the
presence of Douglass, he answered that in the North the black man was counted as a full
man, and had an equal vote with the white, while at the South they were counted at but
three-fifths. And Douglas, when he had made this reply, doubtless thought he had forever
silenced the objection.

Have we no interest in the free Territories of the United States— that they should be
kept open for the homes of free white people? As our Northern States are growing more
and more in wealth and population, we are continually in want of an outlet, through
which it may pass out to enrich our country. In this we have an interest— a deep and
abiding interest. There is another thing, and that is the mature knowledge we have— the
greatest interest of all. It is the doctrine, that the people are to be driven from the
maxims of our free Government, that despises the spirit which for eighty years has
celebrated the anniversary of our national independence.

We are a great empire. We are eighty years old. We stand at once the wonder and
admiration of the whole world, and we must enquire what it is that has given us so much
prosperity, snd we shall understand that to give up that one thing, would be to give up
all future prosperity. This cause is that every man can make himself. It has been said
that such a race of prosperity has been run nowhere else. We find a people on the North-
east, who have a different government from ours, being ruled by a Queen. Turning to the
South, we see a people who, while they boast of being free, keep their fellow beings in
bondage. Compare our Free States with either, shall we say here that we have no interest
in keeping that principle alive? Shall we say— “Let it be.” No— we have an interest in
the maintenance of the principles of the Government, and without this interest, it is
worth nothing. I have noticed in Southern newspapers, particularly the Richmond
Enquirer, the Southern view of the Free States. They insist that slavery has a right to
spread. They defend it upon principle. They insist that their slaves are far better off
than Northern freemen. What a mistaken view do these men have of Northern laborers! They
think that men are always to remain laborers here— but there is no such class.  The man
who labored for another last year, this year labors for himself, and next year he will
hire others to labor for him. These men don’t understand when they think in this manner
of Northern free labor. When these reasons can be introduced, tell me not that we have
no interest in keeping the Territories free for the settlement of free laborers.

I pass, then, from this question. I think we have an ever growing interest in
maintaining the free institutions of our country.

It is said that our party is a sectional party. It has been said in high quarters that
if Fremont and Dayton were elected the Union would be dissolved. The South do not think
so. I believe it! I believe it! It is a shameful thing that the subject is talked of so
much. Did we not have a Southern President and Vice President at one time? And yet the
Union has not yet been disolved. Why, at this very moment, there is a Northern President
and Vice-President. Pierce and King were elected, and King died without ever taking his
seat. The Senate elected a Northern man from their own numbers, to perform the duties of
the Vice-President. He resigned his seat, however, as soon as he got the job of making a
slave State out of Kansas. Was not that a great mistake?

(A voice,— “He didn’t mean that!”)

Then why didn’t he speak what he did mean? Why did not he speak what he ought to have
spoken? That was the very thing. He should have spoken manly, and we should then have
known where to have found him. It is said we expect to elect Fremont by Northern votes.
Certainly we do not think the South will elect him. But let us ask the question
differently. Does not Buchanan expect to be elected by Southern votes? Fillmore,
however, will go out of this contest the most national man we have. He has no prospect
of having a single vote on either side of Mason and Dixon’s line, to trouble his poor
soul about. (Laughter and cheers.)

We believe that it is right that slavery should not be tolerated in the new territories,
yet we cannot get support for this doctrine, except in one part of the country. Slavery
is looked upon by men in the light of dollars and cents. The estimated worth of the
slaves at the South is $1,000,000,000, and in a very few years, if the institution shall
be admitted into the territories, they will have increased fifty per cent in value.

Our adversaries charge Fremont with being an abolitionist. When pressed to show proof,
they frankly confess that they can show no such thing. They then run off upon the
assertion that his supporters are abolitionists. But this they have never attempted to
prove. I know of no word in the language that has been used so much as that one
“abolitionist,” having no definition. It has no meaning unless taken as designating a
person who is abolishing something. If that be its signification, the supporters of
Fremont are not abolitionists. In Kansas all who come there are perfectly free to
regulate their own social relations. There has never been a man there who was an
abolitionist— for what was there to be abolished? People there had perfect freedom to
express what they wished on the subject, when the Nebraska bill was first passed. Our
friends in the South, who support Buchanan, have five disunion men to one at the North.
This disunion is a sectional question. Who is to blame for it? Are we? I don’t care how
you express it. This government is aought to be put on a new track. Slavery is to be
made a ruling element in our government. The question can be avoided in but two ways. By
the one, we must submit, and allow slavery to triumph, or, by the other, we must triumph
over the black demon. We have chosen the latter manner. If you of the North wish to get
rid of this question, you must decide between these two ways— submit and vote for
Buchanan, submit and vote that slavery is a just and good thing and immediately get rid
of the question; or unite with us, and help us to triumph. We would all like to have the
question done away with, but we cannot submit.

They tell us that we are in company with men who have long been known as abolitionists.
What care we how many may feel disposed to labor for our cause? Why do not you, Buchanan
men, come in and use your influence to make our party respectable? (Laughter.) How is
the dissolution of the Union to be consummated? They tell us that the Union is in
danger. Who will divide it? Is it those who make the charge? Are they themselves the
persons who wish to see this result? A majority will never dissolve the Union. Can a
minority do it? When this Nebraska bill was first introduced into Congress, the sense of
the Democratic party was outraged. That party has ever prided itself, that it was the
friend of individual, universal freedom. It was that principle upon which they carried
their measures. When the Kansas scheme was conceived, it was natural that this respect
and sense should have been outraged. Now I make this appeal to the Democratic citizens
here. Don’t you find yourself making arguments in support of these measures, which you
never would have made before? Did you ever do it before this Nebraska bill compelled you
to do it? If you answer this in the affirmative, see how a whole party have been turned
away from their love of liberty! And now, my Democratic friends, come forward. Throw off
these things, and come to the rescue of this great principle of equality. Don’t
interfere with anything in the Constitution.— That must be maintained, for it is the
only safeguard of our liberties. And not to Democrats alone do I make this appeal, but
to all who love these great and true principles. Come, and keep coming! Strike, and
strike again! So sure as God lives, the victory shall be yours.(Great cheering.)
