Springfield, Illinois

August 15, 1855

Hon. Geo. Robertson

Lexington, Ky.

My Dear Sir: The volume you left for me has been received. I am really grateful for the
honor of your kind remembrance, as well as for the book. The partial reading I have
already given it, has afforded me much of both pleasure and instruction. It was new to
me that the exact question which led to the Missouri compromise, had arisen before it
arose in regard to Missouri; and that you had taken so prominent a part in it. Your
short, but able and patriotic speech upon that occasion, has not been improved upon
since, by those holding the same views; and, with all the lights you then had, the views
you took appear to me as very reasonable.

You are not a friend of slavery in the abstract. In that speech you spoke of "the
peaceful extinction of slavery" and used other expressions indicating your belief that
the thing was, at some time, to have an end[.] Since then we have had thirty six years
of experience; and this experience has demonstrated, I think, that there is no peaceful
extinction of slavery in prospect for us. The signal failure of Henry Clay, and other
good and great men, in 1849, to effect any thing in favor of gradual emancipation in
Kentucky, together with a thousand other signs, extinguishes that hope utterly. On the
question of liberty, as a principle, we are not what we have been. When we were the
political slaves of King George, and wanted to be free, we called the maxim that "all
men are created equal" a self evident truth; but now when we have grown fat, and have
lost all dread of being slaves ourselves, we have become so greedy to be masters that we
call the same maxim "a self evident lie" The fourth of July has not quite dwindled away;
it is still a great day--for burning fire-crackers!!!

That spirit which desired the peaceful extinction of slavery, has itself become extinct,
with the occasion, and the men of the Revolution. Under the impulse of that occasion,
nearly half the states adopted systems of emancipation at once; and it is a significant
fact, that not a single state has done the like since. So far as peaceful, voluntary
emancipation is concerned, the condition of the negro slave in America, scarcely less
terrible to the contemplation of a free mind, is now as fixed, and hopeless of change
for the better, as that of the lost souls of the finally impenitent. The Autocrat of all
the Russias will resign his crown, and proclaim his subjects free republicans sooner
than will our American masters voluntarily give up their slaves.

Our poltical problem now is "Can we, as a nation, continue together permanently--forever
--half slave, and half free?" The problem is too mighty for me. May God, in his mercy,
superintend the solution. Your much obliged friend, and humble servant

A. Lincoln
